---
layout: page
title: Week 4 Assessment
---

### Setup

In Github, fork [this repository](https://github.com/memcmahon/Mod1Week4Assessment).

## Questions - 8 points

In your forked repository on **GitHub**, edit the `README.md` file to answer the questions listed there.

### Question Sumbmission
When completed with the questions, scroll to the bottom of the page and click `Commit Changes`.

## Exercise - 12 points

1. Open a new instance of Visual Studio (so that you are looking at the dialog box asking you what kind of project you want to create)
2. Select `Clone a Repository`
3. Copy and Paste the link to your forked repository into `Repository Location`
4. Click `Clone`

In this solution, there is a `Vehicle` project and a `Vehicle.UnitTests` project.  The class in `Vehicle.cs` is complete, but the tests for that class are not yet finished.  Add tests to the `VehicleTests.cs` file so that all the methods and properties for the `Vehicle` class have tests.  When finished, there should fix the broken test and add a minimum of 2 more tests. (12 Points Possible)

### Exercise Submission

1. In Visual Studio, select `File -> Save All`
2. Select `View -> Git Changes`
3. In the Git Changes panel, enter a commit message "Assessment Submission"
4. Click 'Submit All'
5. Click the up arrow icon: ↥
6. **Submit a Link to your forked repository through this form:** [submission form](https://forms.gle/9J9WLmBj1g3mVfyG8)

### Rubric

This assessment has a total of **20 Points**.  Earning **10 or more** points is a **pass** and will indicate that you are progressing well with the material.

<aside class="instructor-notes">
    <p><strong>Instructor Note</strong><br> Students should fix one test, and add 2 more, for each of those three tests that they work on, 1 point is earned for the attempt, then 2-3 points based on the test itself.  4 points for a test that is accurately testing the method, downgrading from there.</p>
</aside>
