---
layout: page
title: Week 5 Assessment
---
## Week 5 Assessment
This weekly assessment is an opportunity for you to explore the main learning goals from the week.  If there are any topics that are unclear, now is the time to reach out for additional information and assistance!

During this assessment, you may use most other resource besides your fellow students.  Feel free to google, look back at your notes, lessons, labs, etc... **you may not use Chat GPT or any other AI tool**

### Setup

In Github, fork [this repository](https://github.com/turingschool-examples/LaunchMod1Week5Assessment).

1. In your forked repository on GitHub, edit the `README.md` file - answer the questions before moving on to the exercise.  Make sure to SAVE your changes to the README before moving on! (10 points possible)
2. In the solution, there is a User project with a single User class. The class works, but it needs some additional effort to be great! One thing that is missing is tests; your job is to write the tests that will confirm the functionality of the class. As you write the tests, you might find some refactoring opportunities; update the user class with any refactors you deem necessary. The only rule is that all the existing methods must still exist when you are finished!(10 Points Possible)


### Submission

When finished:

* Commit your changes in Visual Studio
* Push up to GitHub
* DM a link to your forked repository to your instructors

### Rubric

This assessment has a total of **20 Points**.  Earning **10 or more** points is a **pass** and will indicate that you are progressing well with the material.

As a reminder, this assessment is for students and instructors to determine if there are any areas that need additional reinforcement!