---
layout: page
title: Authentication
---

# Authentication Lesson
* Example of Handrolled Authentication and Authorization
    * scavenger hunt
* Overview of the Identity Scaffold in ASP.NET Core
    * research
    * instructor overview
* Implementation of Identity Scaffold
    * no-roles, just authentication.

## Learning Goals

## An Example of Authentication and Authorization

Auth (the combo of Authentication and Authorization) is an integral part of most modern web applications; and you rarely see one without the other.  Because this is such a common feature, there are **many** libraries that exist to take on most of the implementation of auth for us (yay!).  But. These libraries are large, and offer _a lot_ of functionality.  Before we dive into an Auth library, lets take a look at an implementation of auth done without the use of any special libraries.  

This will help us better understand what is happening under the hood of auth libraries that you will work with _in the wild_.

<section class='call-to-action'>

Follow the instructions in the Readme of [this starter repo](https://github.com/turingschool-examples/MessageBoard)

Be ready to share out your discoveries!

</section>

<section class='instructor-notes' markdown='1'>

For this discussion, we want to highlight which areas of the application are authentication, and which are authorization.  For example, logging in a user is authentication, and making sure a user is an admin in order to see all users or all messages is authorization.

</section>

## Authentication

We have talked around this idea a lot, **authentication** is the process of verifying that someone is who they say they are.  This can happen in a variety of ways:
* **Password Authentication**: This is one of the most common forms of authentication, where a user provides a username and a secret password to prove their identity. The system then checks whether the provided password matches the stored password associated with that username.
* **Biometric Authentication**: Biometric authentication relies on unique physical or behavioral characteristics of an individual to verify their identity. Common biometric methods include fingerprint recognition, facial recognition, iris scanning, and voice recognition.
* **Token-Based Authentication**: Token-based authentication relies on the use of a unique token, which can be a physical hardware device (hardware token) or a software-based token (software token or one-time password generated by an app). A comment implementation of token-based authentication is an app that asks for a users email or username, and sends a log-in link to the user's email address. Tokens are typically time-sensitive and change regularly, adding an extra layer of security to the authentication process.
* **And More!** - There are other ways that users can be authenticated, but these are three of the more popular implementations.

## Implementing Identity

Now that we have seen a 'handrolled' authentication solution, let's take a look at using the [ASP.NET Core Identity API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/authentication/identity?view=aspnetcore-7.0&tabs=visual-studio)

### Setup for Identity

### Scaffold

### Update Controller Attributes

### Database ERD



